**i5K Coordinating Group**

**Conference Call Notes**

**May 16, 2018**

**10:00-11:00 (EST**)

_We need to continue on-going efforts to develop funding, especially positioning i5K to take advantage of potential funding opportunities resulting from the Earth BioGenome Project and other global or local genomics efforts._

**Notes are under each agenda item in italics.**

_Attending: Marian Goldsmith, Sue Brown, Kevin Hackett, Anna Childers, Chris Childers, Monica Poelchau, Dave Hawthorne, Jay Evans, Glenn Hanes, Brad Coates_

_Regrets: fringy, Gene Robinson_

- I5K Pilot: Update, including Publications (fringy)
- EBP Update (Gene, Kevin, fringy, Jon)

-
  - EBP, PNAS
  - Genomics-enabled Success 1-pagers (Kevin, Gene)
  - _There will be a meeting in November in London, Wellcome Trust is hosting._
  - _Harris Lewin would like to see some &#39;success&#39; 1-pagers for this meeting. It would help to think beyond single insects._
  - _Marian: butterfly wing patterning project. This is asking deep questions, and has expanded beyond single species. Mechanisms of evolution. New models for genetic change. It&#39;s a pretty big story; they&#39;ve had covers on prestigious journals. Could ask one of the leads (e.g. Chris Jiggins, Owen Mallett) to write something up._ **Marian can follow up.**
  - _Also, pest caterpillar studies are coming out that might be useful to look into, but they are still new and therefore might be suitable_
  - _Kevin&#39;s perspective: initial goals of the EBP project are for conservation biology. This doesn&#39;t impress USDA/applied people, since 1 species for each family isn&#39;t going to help (you&#39;d need closer relationships). For USDA, phase 1 would be &#39;sequence every agricultural pest in the world&#39;. EBP will help get other foundations interested._
  - _Marian –it&#39;s probably not worth spending money on all ag pests, since there will be redundancy. If you sequence a member of each family, you will discover so much more diversity/mechanism__s._
  - _Anna – RNAi in mite pests study (Varroa) – if we don&#39;t have the bee genome and others, then we don&#39;t know the off-target effects_
  - _Chris – funders are mission-focused. This proposal is geared towards basic research, so it&#39;s hard to tie this together. However, conservation could get funders motivated._
  - _Sounds like there need to be different elevator speeches for different foundations._
  - _Might also need to develop potential questions that would help pitching this (e.g. NSF-level kinds of questions)._
  - _Another possible approach: look at top/seminal papers to see what questions they asked, and what papers have been published as a result._ **Jay will do this for bees. Marian will do this for leps. Sue could try for beetles, and discuss at AGS in a few weeks.**
  - _Should we ask the community again for success stories, this time in a different manner? Sue – problem with previous surveys is that people didn&#39;t write the impact of what they did, but just what they found. Perhaps we need to do this on our own – to tease out the impact of the genomes that were already sequenced. At AGS, put up a poster, where people can write down genome/project – impact. If there&#39;s a bit of competition, then perhaps we&#39;ll get some more ideas._
  - **oo**** Monica will send out the spreadsheet that was previously compiled (and the questions associated with it)**

- Funding
  - NHGRI-June (fringy, Mike, Gene, Sue)
- Arthropod Genomics Symposium, U. Illinois (Gene, Sue)

Time permitting:

- Technical Forum, idea from ESA (Kevin, Monica, Moni, Anna)
  - _Anna sent a prototype of a Q&amp;A page but didn&#39;t get any feedback. She can send around the prototype to the larger group._

- Nominations for Core i5K Taxonomic Groups (fringy, Anna)

_Immediate goal is to develop prioritized lists of species that cover all Arthropod families_


    - i5k Species Nomination Database Update: COIS (Anna, fringy)
    - Identify and Recruit Order or Family Taxal Leads to Nominate Additional Species
      - Create Master List (Anna)

- Prioritization of Species (fringy)
  - Create Criteria for Prioritization (Moni)
- Organization of Sequenced and Nominated Species by Phylogeny
  - Determine the Best Schematic, i.e., Method of Display/Access (Chris)

- Social Media Development Update (Moni, Marian)
- Expand Participation in Monthly i5K Coordinating Group Calls (Kevin)

- i5K-East Organization
  - Recruit Alexie to Lead (Monica)
- Team Lead to Finalize Invitee List and Write Letter of Invitation

- Other Business

- i5K Webinar Update (Anna, Chris)
  - _Need more speakers. Brad suggests finding a team/structure to help recruit. We should try to get ideas on this at AGS. Also, put up a poster board at AGS to find suggestions. In the past, we&#39;ve had flyers for the webinars and website. Looks like the table of available genomes is being used well._
- i5K Workshop Webinar (Chris)
- Cornome Update (Coates, Jay)



**NEXT MEETING: July 18, 2017**

**10:00-11:00 am EST**

**June meeting cancelled due to AGS meeting**
